.TH MDA-LS 1 "August 2016" "MDA Utilities" "MDA Utilities"

.SH NAME
mda-ls \- displays basic properties of EPICS MDA files in a directory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mda-ls
.RB [ \-hvfs ]
.RB [ \-p\c
.IR "\ positioner" ]
.RB [ \-d\c
.IR "\ detector" ]
.RB [ \-t\c
.IR "\ trigger" ]
.RI [ "directory" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mda-ls
is a utility for displaying the basic properties of EPICS MDA files in
a directory.  By default, the following are shown: name of the file,
overall dimensionality of the file, and positioners with their
dimensionalties shown.  If the file was not completed, the highest
dimensionality is represented by the completed number of points,
followed by the requested number in parentheses.  If the file
generates an error while loading, its status will be shown as
.I Invalid. 
By default, the validity of the entire files will be checked, but
minimal checking can be enabled to save time.  There is an option for
showing the fuller
.B mda-ls
listing, which shows the time of the beginning of the scan; to see
more information about a certain file, use
.BR mda-info .
It is possible to filter listing to those containing the PV for a
certain positioner, detector, or trigger.
.PP
By default, 
.B mda-ls
displays the properties of files in the current directory, but a
different directory can be specified.  It doesn't accept file names
as arguments.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-h
Show the help screen.
.TP 
.B \-v
Show the version information.
.TP 
.B \-f
Show the fuller listing, which includes the time of the beginning of the
scan.
.TP 
.B \-s
Use the simpler error checking, instead of checking the entire 
file.
.TP
.BI \-p \ positioner
File are selected that use the specified
.IR positioner .
.TP
.BI \-d \ detector
File are selected that use the specified
.IR detector .
.TP
.BI \-t \ trigger
File are selected that use the specified
.IR trigger .

.SH AUTHOR
Dohn A. Arms

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mda2ascii (1), \ mda-dump (1), \ mda-info (1)

