.TH MDA2ASCII 1 "August 2016" "MDA Utilities" "MDA Utilities"

.SH NAME
mda2ascii \- convert EPICS MDA files to ASCII format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mda2ascii
.RB [ \-hvmtfe1a ]
.RB [ \-x\c
.IR "\ extension" ]
.RB [ \-d\c
.IR "\ directory" ]
.RB [ \-o\c
.IR "\ output" 
.RB | \ \- ]
.RB [ \-c\c
.IR "\ commenter" ]
.RB [ \-s\c
.IR "\ separator" ]
.RB [ \-i\ 
.IR "dimension"
.RB | \ \- ]
.IR "\ mdafile\ " [ "..." ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mda2ascii
is a utility for converting the binary MDA data files (created by
.BR saveData \ in
.BR EPICS )
into ASCII output.  It can handle arbitrary dimensional scans, and can
split multi-dimensional scans into separate files for each
dimensionalty.  Scan values for the dimensionalty being converted are
put into column form, while the higher dimensional information is kept
in a commented header.
.PP
By default, it writes the output for a one-dimensional MDA file to a
single file, while for multi-dimensional scans it writes multiple
files.  The files are put into the current directory.  The name of the
written file(s) are determined from the input file name, where the
extension is removed and replaced with "asc".  For multiple files, the
higher-dimensional indices are added in order to the base file name.
Each scan dimensionality that contains detectors is converted.  In
addition,
.B mda2ascii
can process multiple files at a time.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-h
Show the help screen.
.TP 
.B \-v
Show the version information.
.TP 
.B \-m
Merge the higher dimensional data into the current dimensional scan
values.  Each of the higher dimensional values takes the form of a
column with that single value, and the higher dimensional values are
removed from the header.  The higher dimensional scan indices are also
added as columns, with the corresponding single values.
.TP
.B \-t
Trim off all the commented header lines, leaving only values.
.TP
.B \-f
Friendlier data presentation, with all the data columns having a
uniform width, making manual browsing of values much easier.  An extra
commented line at the beginning of scan data indicates the column
numbers.
.TP
.B \-e
Write "Extra PV" information into a separate file.  The name of this
extra file is included in the scan file after the header.  This option
is overriden by the
.B
\-t
and
.B
\-1
options.
.TP
.B \-1
For a multi-dimensional scan file, all of the resulting output for
each scan is merged into a single output file.  An overall header is
added at the start of the file, the scans are all separated by
dividers, and another divider is added before the first scan of every
dimensionality.
.TP
.B \-a
Write out all the scans, even those that are not considered truly
finished.  This only really matters for a multidimensional data file,
where the overall scan was aborted before finishing.  Technically,
only those lower-dimensional scans under the completed
highest-dimensional scans are considered complete.  However, there may
be incomplete scans under the highest dimensional scan that was
running, and this option outputs those scans.  Those scans tend to
have bad values in the higher dimensional areas, so take care with these
scans.
.TP
.BI \-x \ extension
Change the extension used for automatically naming files.
The default is "asc".
.TP 
.BI \-d \ directory
Change the output directory when automatically naming files.
The default is the current directory (or ".").
.TP
.BI \-o \ output "\ |\ \-"
Specify the output file, limiting the number of input MDA files to
one. Either the entire file name and path can be specified, or simply
the name's base.  If using a base, an extension and directory will be
appended to it, coming either from the
.B \-x
and 
.B \-d
options or their defaults).  Alternatively, if "\c
.B \-\c
" is specified, the output will be redirected to the standard output
(the screen).
.TP
.BI \-c \ commenter
Change the string used at the beginning of a comment line.  Normally,
this is a single character, but it can be more. The default is "#".
.TP
.BI \-s \ separator
Change the string used to separate the data values into columns.
The default is " ".
.TP
.BI \-i \ dimension "\ |\ \-"
Specify the scan dimensionality that is output.  The possible
parameters are the scan dimensionality or "\c
.B \-\c
" for all scans. 
The default is to use all scans that contain detectors.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To convert a directory full of MDA files, sending the output to the
directory "asc_data", one would simply run
.IP
\fCmda2ascii -d asc_data *.mda\fP
.LP
Alternatively, you can go into the "asc_data" directory and run instead
.IP
\fCmda2ascii ../*.mda\fP
.LP
where all the ASCII files go into the current directory.
.PP
If your program needs "%" as the comment character and "," as data
separators, you could convert the data this way, running
.IP
\fCmda2ascii -s "," -c "%" *.mda\fP
.LP
where the output goes into the original directory.
.PP
Suppose one wants all the resultant one-dimensional data from a
multi-dimensional data file (say "data.mda") to come out in a
multidimensional ASCII form, suitable for a matrix manipulating
program.  This can be accomplished using
.IP
\fCmda2ascii -m1t -i 1 -o data-matrix.dat data.mda\fP
.LP
where the output is stored in a special file "data-matrix.dat".  This
file will have the complete multi-dimensional data set ready to be
read.  For a file with n dimensions, the first n columns will be the
indices identifying the point. There is a caveat to all of this:
.B "mda2ascii"
does absolutely no checking to make sure that the parameters of the
lower dimensional scans weren't altered while the top-most dimensional
scan was running.  In theory, the one-dimensional scans could have
different numbers of detectors, different number of scan points, etc.
which would make the data nonsensical.  This is very unlikely, but it
is theoretically possible.

.SH AUTHOR
Dohn A. Arms

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mda-dump (1), \ mda-info (1), \ mda-ls (1)

