.TH MDATREE2ASCII 1 "August 2016" "MDA Utilities" "MDA Utilities"

.SH NAME
mdatree2ascii \- convert directories of EPICS MDA files to ASCII format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdatree2ascii
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-x\c
.IR "\ extension" ]
.I "source" "destination"
.RI [ "mda2ascii_options" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mdatree2ascii
is a script utility for converting directory trees of binary MDA data
files (which are created by
.BR saveData \ in
.BR EPICS )
into newly created directory trees containing the ASCII output.  The
source and destination trees share the same layout, except that
directories in the source tree that contain no MDA files will not be
created in the destination tree.  The program
.B mda2ascii
is run on each found file, using the options provided by the user.
The program will show the directory that is currently being converted,
and there is an option for showing the current file as well.  Any
errors that
.B mda2ascii
generates will appear, but they will not stop the conversion process.
.PP
By default, the utility will ignore symbolic links, but there are
switches for enabling following directory symbolic links and converting
MDA file symbolic links.  There is also an option to change the extension
that is searched, from the default "mda".
.PP 
While the utility will use the
.I mda2ascii
that is found in the
.IR PATH ,
explicit location for the executable can be used by setting the
environment variable 
.I MDA2ASCII
to the location of 
.IR mda2ascii .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-h
Show the help screen.
.TP 
.B \-v
Show the version information.
.TP
.B \-d
Display the name of the current MDA file being converted.
.TP
.B \-f
Follow directory symbolic links while searching the tree.
.TP
.B \-s
Convert MDA files that are actually symbolic links.
.TP
.BI \-x \ extension
Change the extension used while searching for files, from the default
"mda".

.SH AUTHOR
Dohn A. Arms

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mda2ascii (1), \ mda-dump (1), \ mda-info (1), \ mda-ls (1)

